Add homepage and update README (#32)
PEtab-dev/petab_sciml: doc/introduction.rst

PEtab SciML
===========

PEtab SciML is a table-based data format for creating training (parameter estimation)
problems for **scientific machine learning (SciML)** models that combine machine learning
and mechanistic ordinary differential equation (ODE) models.

Highlights
----------

Extending the `PEtab format <https://petab.readthedocs.io/>`_ for mechanistic models,
PEtab SciML provides an accessible, reproducible way to specify SciML training problems
across diverse scenarios, in a format directly importable by downstream tools. The main
aspects enabling this are:

- **Flexible hybridization.** Machine learning (ML) and ODE models can be combined in three
  ways: (1) ML within the ODE dynamics (includes **Neural ODEs**), (2) ML in the
  observable/measurement model linking simulations to data, and (3) ML upstream of the ODE,
  mapping high-dimensional inputs (e.g., images) to ODE model parameters.

> - **Import across ecosystems.** PEtab SciML problems can be imported into state-of-the-art

Author: Following the comment above, I think this is fair point to add this as a point here. Thanks!

  toolboxes for dynamic-model training in Julia
  (`PEtab.jl <https://github.com/sebapersson/PEtab.jl>`_) and Python/JAX
  (`AMICI <https://github.com/AMICI-dev/AMICI>`_).

> - **Diverse model types.** All model features of the

Author: Well, while the YAML if flexible we also allow networks to be supported in Lux.jl or equinox which really increases the number of possible architectures. As all this is quite nuanced, how about saying something like broad support for neural network architectures (and tutorials and rest of documentation will elaborate more?)

  `PEtab format <https://petab.readthedocs.io/>`_ are supported, like models with partial
  observability, multiple simulation conditions, diverse noise models, and events/callbacks.
- **Efficient training strategies.** With minimal user input, PEtab SciML problems can be
  rewritten at the PEtab abstraction level to be compatible with training strategies such as
  multiple shooting, curriculum learning, and regularization (e.g., of ML outputs).

> - **Thoroughly tested.** An extensive test suite ensures importers produce correct,

Author: Lets drop this, to avoid having the user clicking to many links.

  consistent output.
- **Linting and helpers.** The PEtab SciML Python library provides a linter and utility
  functions for creating common problem types (e.g., Neural ODEs) and transformations (e.g.,
  rewriting a PEtab problem for multiple-shooting training).

Installation
------------

The PEtab SciML Python3 helper library can be installed with:

.. code-block:: bash

   pip install petab-sciml

How to read the documentation
-----------------------------

If you are new to PEtab SciML, start with the Getting Started tutorial. It is a
prerequisite for the How-to guides, which cover different model scenarios (e.g., Neural
ODEs, ML model upstream of the ODE). For a complete description of all options when

> defining a SciML problem, see the Format specification.

Reviewer: Hyperlink
- getting started tutorial
- how-to guides
- format specification

To skeleton pages if they aren't ready yet

Why a SciML data format?
------------------------

> There are several technical challenges with training SciML models. First, coding a correct

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are several technical challenges with training SciML models. Firstly, coding a correct
```

and performant loss/objective function is non-trivial, especially for more complex models

> like those events or partial observability. Second, efficient training requires gradients

Reviewer: ```suggestion
like those events or partial observability. Secondly, efficient training requires gradients
```

> computed via automatic differentiation (AD). Yet writing fast, AD-compatible code in
> frameworks like JAX, PyTorch, or the Julia SciML ecosystem can be challenging. Similarly,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
computed via automatic differentiation (AD). Although frameworks like JAX,
PyTorch and the Julia SciML ecosystem support AD-compatible code, it can still
be challenging to write performant code. Similarly,
```

porting models between frameworks to leverage framework-specific benefits is time-consuming

> because syntax and AD framework differ. As a result, training setups are often hard-coded

Reviewer: ```suggestion
because each AD framework uses different syntax. As a result, training setups are often hard-coded
```

to a single framework. This undermines reusability, both for extending prior work and for

> creating benchmark collections that can run across toolchains.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
creating benchmark collections that can run across AD frameworks.
```

Unless there is a clear difference between toolchain and framework that is relevant to PEtab SciML, I would just stick to one keyword for this document, since we probably want to refer to the keyword "AD framework" elsewhere in the documentation too.

> All this motivated PEtab SciML. By providing a programming-language-independent, accessible,
> table-based format, specifying the training objective becomes simpler. A standard
> specification also lets importers in suitable frameworks (e.g., JAX, Julia) be engineered
> for performance and correctness across the entire standard rather than for ad-hoc use cases.
> Together, these points improve exchangeability, correctness, and overall reproducibility.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
PEtab SciML solves these problems by providing a specification format that is accessible, tabular and independent of programming languages.
This means that specification of the training objective becomes simpler, and this standardized
specification also enables generic importers in AD frameworks (e.g. JAX and Julia SciML) that can provide correct and performant training objectives for any SciML problem in the PEtab SciML format, as opposed to users engineering their own solutions for ad-hoc use cases.
Together, this design additionally improves exchangeability and overall reproducibility.
```

What do you mean by accessible here? I would say it's not so relevant if using the FAIR description.
https://www.go-fair.org/fair-principles/
Usual terms for the PEtab format are interoperable and human- and machine-readable and -writable.

Author: Accessible  I try to aim for user friendly, but I beleive just the right word to use here will be human readable and writable.
